[docs] - Subsetting asset checks (DOC-162) (#21564)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/concepts/assets/asset-checks/subsetting-asset-checks.mdx

---
title: "Executing subsets of asset checks | Dagster Docs"
description: "Learn how to execute subsets of asset checks."
---

> # Executing subsets of asset checks

Reviewer: Subsettng checks in @multi_assets and @multi_asset_checks

> In some cases, you may only want to execute some of the [asset checks](/concepts/assets/asset-checks) associated with an asset. For example, let's say you have some data that's updated frequently. There are a number of checks that target this data, but one of the checks is expensive to run. Instead of running the expensive check every time the data updates, you can opt to execute a subset of the checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you may only want to execute some of the [asset checks](/concepts/assets/asset-checks) defined in a @multi_asset or @multi_asset_check. For example, you may want to materialize a @multi_asset without executing the checks. In another case, you may want to only execute a certain set of checks.
```

In this guide, we'll show you a few approaches to subsetting your asset checks.

---

## Prerequisites

Before continuing, you should be familiar with:

- [Asset checks](/concepts/assets/asset-checks)
- [Multi-assets](/concepts/assets/multi-assets)

---

> ## Executing subsets of checks using @multi_asset_check

Reviewer: Subsetting @multi_asset_checks

        AssetCheckSpec(name="asset_check_two", asset="my_asset_two"),
    ],
    can_subset=True,
)
def the_check(context: AssetCheckExecutionContext) -> Iterable[AssetCheckResult]:
    for check_key in context.selected_asset_check_keys:
        asset_key = check_key.asset_key

        # TODO: populate metadata
        metadata = {}
        if random.random() > 0.5:
            yield AssetCheckResult(
                passed=False,
                severity=AssetCheckSeverity.WARN,
                description="The asset is over 0.5",
                asset_key=asset_key,
            )
        else:
            yield AssetCheckResult(
                passed=True,
                metadata=metadata,
                description="The asset is fresh.",
                asset_key=asset_key,
            )
```

---

## TODO: With multi_asset

When using [multi-assets](/concepts/assets/multi-assets), Dagster assumes that all checks specified on the asset should be executed after it is materialized. This means that attempting to execute some, but not all, of the checks defined by a multi-asset will result in an error.

```python

> TODO - EXAMPLE

Author: Example needed

Reviewer: here's sample code: https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/python_modules/dagster-test/dagster_test/toys/asset_checks.py#L140-L157

Author: Should we use this? In some of the de-emphasizing I/O manager work I did, we opted to move to using `AssetSpec` instead of `AssetOut`, and `yield MaterializeResult` instead of `yield Output`. 

I'm not sure if that's relevant to this specific example - it's discussed in DOC-110 - but just wanted to check so we can be consistent in the examples we're using.

Inside the body of the function, we can use <PyObject object="AssetCheckExecutionContext" displayText="AssetCheckExecutionContext.selected_asset_check_keys" /> to identify which computations to run. We can also set the decorator's `can_subset` parameter to `True` to execute a subset of the asset checks that the computation contains.

As we don't know in advance which checks will be executed, we explicitly `yield` each asset check result that we're expected to create:

```python file=/concepts/assets/asset_checks/subset_multi_asset_check.py
import random
from typing import Iterable

from dagster import (
    AssetCheckExecutionContext,
    AssetCheckResult,
    AssetCheckSeverity,
    AssetCheckSpec,
    multi_asset_check,
)

@multi_asset_check(
    specs=[
        AssetCheckSpec(name="asset_check_one", asset="my_asset_one"),
        AssetCheckSpec(name="asset_check_two", asset="my_asset_two"),
    ],
    can_subset=True,
)
def the_check(context: AssetCheckExecutionContext) -> Iterable[AssetCheckResult]:
    for check_key in context.selected_asset_check_keys:
        asset_key = check_key.asset_key

>         # TODO: populate metadata

Reviewer: note TODO. I think the use of random.random() here is more confusing than helpful- can we replace it with something closer to the below snippet? I think it's also more clear if we remove the for loop

e.g.

```python
    if (
        AssetCheckKey(AssetKey("my_asset_one"), "asset_check_one")
        in context.selected_asset_check_keys
    ):
        yield AssetCheckResult(passed=True, metadata={"foo": "bar"}, name="asset_check_one")
    if (
        AssetCheckKey(AssetKey("my_asset_two"), "asset_check_two")
        in context.selected_asset_check_keys
    ):
        yield AssetCheckResult(passed=True, metadata={"foo": "bar"}, name="asset_check_two")
```

Author: Done!
